+++
title = "The Artist's Way Week 9 Recap"
date = "2024-10-05T21:29:20+08:00"
tags = ["artist's way"]
categories = ["about"]
banner = "img/banners/ArtistWay_09.png"
caption = ""
authors = ["Leslie Carrier"]
+++

Week 9 of *The Artist's Way* covers how to face the internal blocks we have when it comes to creativity. These blocks range from fears that include fear of success, failure, and/or fear of abandonment if we believe we disappointed loved ones. As artists we're often too self critical by labeling ourselves as lazy if we don't have some highly regimented way to consistently produce art. The chapter explains how that thinking can be detrimental to our own creativity. Instead, we need think of our creative self as a playful child rather than a highly militarized machine. The fear of not being perfect or possibly failing blocks our creativity. I constantly struggle with these fears, but this chapter helped me figure out how to acknowledge the fear and then mold it into excitement for a new project rather than resistance. Everyone at some point has felt as if they hold themselves back through some sort of resistance related to fear. That's where enthusiasm comes in the picture&mdash;when we look at producing art with enthusiasm rather than with fear of not "doing it right”, then we get more into a  creative exploration headspace. When I started painting for the first time in years, I felt blocked and afraid that I was going to somehow paint wrong. I reminded myself to have fun with the piece, it's not a school project, it's overall low stakes and meant to be fun. Overall, we need to stop taking art so seriously!

This chapter includes a helpful section on how to blast through creative blocks. In order to begin a project, the book recommends asking if we hold any resentment or resistance. Air those out, write them down, and acknowledge them to heal. Your inner artist needs to be gently coaxed into a new projects rather than reluctantly forced. Ask yourself what you gain by not starting the project. Once all of that laundry of creative blocks is out on the table, make a deal: Ok creative force, you take care of the quality and I'll take care of the quantity. Surrender to taking action and the art will follow.

This week's artist date allowed me to explore my own inner creative child. I went to a craft store this week and treated myself to a large box of classic Crayola Crayons. I can't remember the last time I had a new box of Crayola Crayons. I still remember the satisfaction of opening a new box of crayons. It's truly an experience of the senses: you're greeted by the rainbow of colors while enjoying that new crayon smell. The new box has crisp edges that contain newly-sharpened crayon tips that are full of promise. Nothing feels more inspiring than opening a new box of crayons when it comes to an art project. I propped up a dog breed encyclopedia and went to town drawing various dogs with a ballpoint pen on a large sheet of sketchbook paper. I didn't worry too much if I made a mistake in the drawing. I started off using a pencil, but ended up having more fun when I switched to ballpoint pen. I dug into those crayons and played around with the different colors by experimenting with blending. It was purely low stakes and experimental to where I wasn't concerned if a dog ended up looking like Pepto Bismol. I ended up spending a good portion of that Sunday afternoon drawing and coloring dogs. I had no idea I'd get so engrossed with blending crayon colors, but I thoroughly enjoyed it! Let this be your hint to play around with some old art supplies you haven't touched since elementary school. You may be surprised what projects and memories you'll uncover! 