+++
title = "The Artist's Way Week 7 Recap"
date = "2024-09-20T21:29:20+08:00"
tags = ["artist's way"]
categories = ["about"]
banner = "img/banners/ArtistWay_07.png"
caption = "Some fun finds on my downtown exploration"
authors = ["Leslie Carrier"]
+++

Week 7 of *The Artist's Way* encourages us to shift our attitude towards creativity by overcoming the typical blocks. On our creative journey, we may often get caught up with perfectionism, jealousy, aversion to taking risks, and/or failing to listen to that quiet inner voice. This chapter highlights the importance of quieting our mind to finally be able to tap into that creative intuition. I immediately thought of that Pixar movie *Soul* with how it illustrates the concept of connecting to oneself spiritually by getting into that "zone" through a favorite creative activity. Have you ever been so engrossed in a favorite task such as writing, drawing, or anything you're passionate of to where you lose track of time? That's the sweet spot when we no longer hear that self critical chatter in our heads and just lead with our heart. 

Some common creative obstacles the chapter mentions is jealousy, aversion to risks, and perfectionism. All of these concepts tie into an excuse of why we put off some type of new activity we'd like to try but have been too afraid to dive in. We shy away from trying that new course because we're afraid of appearing silly. There's the common block of perfectionism where we resist trying something new because if we can't get it perfect the first time, then why bother? We get jealous of those who we perceive living our dreams because we were too afraid to try. It all distills down to a fear of the unknown where our ego gives us the delusion that we're in danger because it doesn't like change. But in reality, change is the healthiest way to creatively push ourselves. How many things out there have you wanted to try but have been held back by fear? This chapter highlights how to make small changes towards trying something new. No one ever gets it right the first time and we need to allow ourselves those terrible first tries.

This week's artist date happened to include me taking a risk when I decided to make the first awkward and uncomfortable step in sharing my stickers to local gift shop business. I explored a nearby town for my artist date that I usually never visit and decided to pay attention to all of the surrounding places. I discovered shops and parts of the downtown area I didn't even know existed. This one shop had a good variety of fun little gifts including some stickers. I decided to take a risk and ask the attendant if they happen to sell local artist stickers or stationery and mentioned that I just started an art business where I mostly sell stickers. I timidly proposed the idea of selling my stickers if they needed more vendors at a later time. While she wasn't the owner, she was incredibly nice and took my information anyway. The worst someone could say is "no" a business proposition, so why not try getting comfortable selling myself. I felt embarrassed and slimy afterwards&mdash;I was proud that I was brave enough to even ask, but I hate selling myself. My motive wasn't to get new business, but to get practice with talking to store owners about business opportunities. I realized how much I undervalue myself with all of the subsequent negative feelings. However when I look at it from the perspective of a store owner who may actually want to find new local vendors, it makes me feel a little better, but it's something I need to continue to do to get out of my comfort zone. 